Whats Rest API:
Rest API is a way of communication between client and server.
It is a set of rules that developers follow when they create their API.
One of the rules is that you should be able to get a piece of data (called a resource) when you link to a specific URL.

What is Soap API:
SOAP (Simple Object Access Protocol) is a messaging protocol
that allows programs that run on disparate operating systems (such as Windows and Linux)
to communicate using Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) and its Extensible Markup Language (XML).

What is the difference between Rest and Soap API:
1. Rest API is a set of rules that developers follow when they create their API.
2. SOAP API is a messaging protocol that allows programs that run on disparate operating systems to communicate using HTTP and XML.
3. REST APIs uses multiple standards like HTTP, JSON, URL, and XML while SOAP APIs is largely based on HTTP and XML.
4. REST APIs are easy to integrate with existing websites with no need to install any additional software while SOAP APIs are not easy to integrate with existing websites.
5. REST APIs are considered to be faster than SOAP APIs.
6. REST APIs are more flexible than SOAP APIs.

What is the difference between Get and Post:
1. GET requests data from a specified resource while POST submits data to be processed to a specified resource.
2. GET requests can be cached and remain in the browser history while POST requests are never cached and do not remain in the browser history.
3. GET requests can be bookmarked while POST requests cannot be bookmarked.
4. GET requests have length restrictions while POST requests have no restrictions.
5. GET requests should be used only to retrieve data while POST requests should be used to update data.

What is the difference between Put and Patch:
1. PUT requests to update an existing resource while PATCH requests to update a part of an existing resource.
2. PUT requests are idempotent while PATCH requests are not idempotent.
3. PUT requests require the client to send the entire updated resource while PATCH requests require the client to send only the updated part of the resource.
4. PUT requests are used to update the entire resource while PATCH requests are used to update a part of the resource.

What is the difference between Put and Post:
1. PUT requests to update an existing resource while POST submits data to be processed to a specified resource.
2. PUT requests are idempotent while POST requests are not idempotent.
3. PUT requests require the client to send the entire updated resource while POST requests require the client to send only the data to be processed.
4. PUT requests are used to update the entire resource while POST requests are used to submit data to be processed.



#Editor to view the API response Online
https://jsoncrack.com/editor


#Link to the API: https://reqres.in/
https://reqres.in/

